# Causal Inference Analysis: Access to Education in Pakistan
The Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) have found safe haven in north-western Pakistan since 2007, and have been at war with the Pakistani state and army. Part of their agenda is implementing \textit{sharia} law in Pakistan, which has severely restricted girls' education in areas where they are most active. This study seeks to investigate the impact that the Taliban has had on girls' education in rural areas.
<br>
<br>
To achieve this objective, this anlysis compared primary school enrollment of girls in the 20 districts with strong TTP influence, to the girls who are in districts which are not controlled by the Taliban. Using a \textit{difference in difference} approach, it was estimated the causal treatment effect on the treated group (ATT) by comparing the girl's enrollment rate in the two groups both before and after the Taliban incursion that started in 2007. This study assumes that both groups would trend similarly over time if Taliban intervention had not occurred. Pakistan's education data has been sourced from Pakistan Living Standards Measurement (PSLM) survey. The survey covers rural and urban areas of the four main provinces of Pakistan and collects information on a wide range of topics such as education, immunization, reproductive health, and access to basic services. 
<br>
<br>
This analysis did not reveal a significant average effect in the enrollment rate in school for girls TTP influenced cities. A thorough discussion of the challenges faced using the PSLM Survey has been outlined in the full report. Some of these limitation include missing and varied data across years, which could explain the absence of the treatment effect that we expect to see in our study.

Please see the content of this analysis in presentation slides [here] (https://github.com/clarissaache/access-to-education-causal-inference-analysis/blob/22b46c603b16ac909b6b585d7388f02c7ec6e006/40-docs/Final_presentations_V_final.pdf).
